# TheLastLine
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/lYSlRqF-fEU
#### Description:

 With no help in sight it is up to you to defend your base from the seemingly endless number of enemies attacking you for your resources. Just you, your gun and the hundreds of enemies. How long can you survive?

My CS50 Final Project is an endless first-person shooter created using the game engine Unity and the programming language C#. This project was my first time ever using Unity and C Sharp so it was a daunting task to start but with my knowledge from all the weeks of learning at CS50 I was prepared for learning and applying new programming languages. I spent many hours writing thousands of lines of code and still managed to complete my first game in only 7 days.

The Assets folder on Github is where most of my work on this project is stored and contains all of the different assets I created for the project. 

Looking inside that folder, the Scenes folder contains the scene files for the 2 scenes in this game. The start menu scene and the main game itself. Inside the files contains the default layout of these scenes a.k.a the location, style and components of all the objects that will start in the scene. The Materials folder contains many materials that can be applied to objects for different textures, colours and maps. These materials are what give the game its colour. Also in this folder are the different physic materials used in the project. These types of materials determine how certain objects react when colliding with them. It gives attributes such as friction and bounciness. Prefabs are like preset game objects that can be used in many different ways. These prefabs can be used to add to a scene when asked even if the scene doesn't start with it. It is a very good method for also creating many of one game object because all of the copies reference the one saved in the folder. Inside my prefabs folder contains the prefabs for the 2 types of enemies that attack you during the game and also the spawning sphere for each of them which is used in the animation of them spawning in from their respective side of the map. The Resources folder contains some miscellaneous resources for the game. One of these resources is the world file which contains the giant terrain folder which renders the world in which you play the game. The Assets folder's Final and Most Important Folder is the scripts folder. This contains the dozens of scripts used throughout the game which makes the game function. Combined these script files contain thousands of lines which all were coded manually. Scripts are what make the game do anything. They make movement function; they make all the buttons actually do something; without them there would be no game to play. 

When learning to code this game I relied on YouTube tutorials to teach me how to navigate the Unity editor, and how the game object structure works. I had to learn how to write C# code and then learn Unity's Monobehavior method of creating functions. Unity has a few functions that can be called by Unity. The most used ones in my game are the Start function which is called the first frame the script awakes and the Update function which is called every frame the game renders. Overall, this project felt difficult and frustrating and some times but in the end I am very happy with the result I have created and enjoyed this Final Project for CS50. Thank You.
